README.md, before:

# traefikAuth - PKI authentication and access control

Provides a [traefik](https://github.com/traefik/traefik)
[forwardAuth](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/forwardauth/)
service that implements access whitelisting based on client service host name, PKI certificate CN and O
attributes.

The policy file is monitored for changes. This allows one to update it without restarting the service.

## Command line

```
Usage of ./traefikAuth:
  -bindAddr string
        which network device to bind (default "0.0.0.0")
  -caFile string
        pem encoded file containing X.509 trusted issuer certificates to add to platform truststore
  -cacheSize int
        identity decision working set size (default 53)
  -certFile string
        pem encoded file containing a X.509 server certificate
  -cidrs string
        incoming connections must come from within this list of comma separated CIDRs
  -keyFile string
        pem encoded file containing an unencrypted X.509 certificate key
  -listenPort int
        upon which TCP/IP port to listen for traefik connections (default 7980)
  -policy string
        policyMap file (default "/home/kjpratt/.traefikForwardAuthPolicy.yaml")
  -verbose
        if set, logging is verbose
  -version
        show the version and quit
```

In order to use TLS, you must provide both the server cert *-certFile* and matching key *-keyFile* on the command
line.

## Policy File

```yaml
# the Flintstones SOHO
- o: '^Family|Friends$' # regexp match on organization
  cn:
    allow:
      - Fred Flintstone
      - Wilma Flintstone
```

This policy file authorizes only those presenting client certificates with an O of 'Family' and a CN that matches
'Fred Flintstone' or 'Wilma Flintstone'.

## Systemd

Here is an example systemd unit file. I run traefik in Docker. The below sets the service to start
before the Docker service starts.

```unit file (systemd)
[Unit]
Description=traefik PKI client cert whitelisting agent
After=network.target
Before=docker.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/opt/auth/traefikAuth
ExecReload=/bin/kill -SIGUSR1 $MAINPID

[Install]
WantedBy=docker.service
```

## traefik labels

traefik uses the concept of 'middleware' to process incoming requests. The middleware setup is provided using Docker
labels.
Here is an example that controls access to a [Portainer](https://www.portainer.io/) deployment.

```yaml
labels:
  - "traefik.http.routers.portainer.middlewares=pkiwhitelist"
  - "traefik.http.routers.portainer.tls=true"
  - "traefik.http.routers.portainer.tls.options=certRequired@file"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.authserver.forwardauth.address=http://192.168.10.99:7980"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.passCertInfo.passtlsclientcert.info.subject.commonName=true"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.passCertInfo.passtlsclientcert.info.issuer.organization=true"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.pkiwhitelist.chain.middlewares=passCertInfo,authserver"
```

Commit message:

wip - adding multi host header support

README.md, after:

# traefikAuth - PKI authentication and access control

Provides a [traefik](https://github.com/traefik/traefik)
[forwardAuth](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/forwardauth/)
service that implements access whitelisting based on client service host name, PKI certificate CN and O
attributes.

The policy file is monitored for changes. This allows one to update it without restarting the service. Additionally,
the service can be forced to read its configuration file by sending it a SIGHUP signal.

## Command line

```
Usage of ./traefikAuth:
  -bindAddr string
        which network device to bind (default "0.0.0.0")
  -caFile string
        pem encoded file containing X.509 trusted issuer certificates to add to platform truststore
  -cacheSize int
        identity decision working set size (default 53)
  -certFile string
        pem encoded file containing a X.509 server certificate
  -cidrs string
        incoming connections must come from within this list of comma separated CIDRs
  -keyFile string
        pem encoded file containing an unencrypted X.509 certificate key
  -listenPort int
        upon which TCP/IP port to listen for traefik connections (default 7980)
  -policy string
        policyMap file (default "/home/kjpratt/.traefikForwardAuthPolicy.yaml")
  -verbose
        if set, logging is verbose
  -version
        show the version and quit
```

In order to use TLS, you must provide both the server cert *-certFile* and matching key *-keyFile* on the command
line.

## Policy File

```yaml
# the Flintstones SOHO
- sni match: '.*' # regexp match on Host header 
  o: '^Family|Friends$' # regexp match on organization
  cn:
    allow:
      - Fred Flintstone
      - Wilma Flintstone
```

This policy file authorizes only those presenting client certificates with an O of 'Family' and a CN that matches
'Fred Flintstone' or 'Wilma Flintstone'. The match rule for the Host header, sni match, allows any host value.

## Systemd

Here is an example systemd unit file. I run traefik in Docker. The below sets the service to start
before the Docker service starts.

```unit file (systemd)
[Unit]
Description=traefik PKI client cert whitelisting agent
After=network.target
Before=docker.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/opt/auth/traefikAuth
ExecReload=/bin/kill -SIGUSR1 $MAINPID

[Install]
WantedBy=docker.service
```

## traefik labels

traefik uses the concept of 'middleware' to process incoming requests. The middleware setup is provided using Docker
labels.
Here is an example that controls access to a [Portainer](https://www.portainer.io/) deployment.

```yaml
labels:
  - "traefik.http.routers.portainer.middlewares=pkiwhitelist"
  - "traefik.http.routers.portainer.tls=true"
  - "traefik.http.routers.portainer.tls.options=certRequired@file"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.authserver.forwardauth.address=http://192.168.10.99:7980"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.passCertInfo.passtlsclientcert.info.subject.commonName=true"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.passCertInfo.passtlsclientcert.info.issuer.organization=true"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.pkiwhitelist.chain.middlewares=passCertInfo,authserver"
```
